12/31/2012

I was excited to hear a new restaurant in Vancouver is featuring the concept of blind dining. Dark Table in Kitsilano can be easy to miss, since all of its windows are covered in black. All that's left to let people know it's existence are the banner and the well hidden door through an archway. What's a better excuse than to try this out for my birthday? So I did.

From the archway, my guy and I were greeted by a hostess who directed us to a heated lounge patio and gave us menus to order before we enter the restaurant. When we were ready, our server came out to direct us into the restaurant and to our seats. We were completely blinded after entering through the doors, so our servers had to guide us to our table. He also explained to us how to communicate with him if we needed anything during our meal, since we will be eating in complete darkness.

We slowly got to know our surroundings by feeling and touching the table, sensing where was our cutleries and drinks. We also slowly realize that some of our other sense were heightened since we lost our ability to see. I suddenly could hear all the conversations that was going on around us. It was quite fascinating. The atmosphere was quite nice, with mellow and soft music in the background, we continued to wait for our food.

When the food arrived, first thing I noticed was how good it smelled. It seems like I could smell the juice of the beef tenderloin from afar, but actually not knowing how close it was to me. The smell of the meal got to my stomach, and suddenly I realized how hungry I was. The first bite was the hardest because we were still trying to know where our food were. However, the tenderloin was already pre-cut for us, so that helped a lot. The bite into the steak was the best part. I have never had steak in the dark, but that first bite was delicious. The juice of the beef was so sweet and the meat was so tender. All of a sudden all your tastebuds seems to have waken up from a deep sleep. This experience really let you taste the food as it is suppose to taste, and enjoy it for what it taste like. With the beef tenderloins, it was served with some vegetables as well. We knew there was potatoes, but there was two other kinds of vegetable that we did not really knew what they were. I thought it taste like carrots and zucchini. My boyfriend thought it was yam and carrots. It turns out we were both wrong. They were beets and parsnips, two kinds of vegetable that I would never touch normally. It turns out they taste different from what I imagined it to be.

Here is the best part - Dessert! We thought to have a little fun with this one and choose to surprise ourselves with the dessert. The dessert was served in front of me, and we have to guess what it was. The first bite tasted like apple, but then I tasted a little of what seems to be raisons. Then we both figured it was pie, but still not sure what type. At last we gave up and found out later at the billing counter that it was cranberry apple pie. What an interesting way to experience your meal. I would recommend to try at least once. You would appreciate food more after you do.

I would post pictures along with this blog post, but it was difficult since we were in the dark. I guess you will just have to go and try for yourselves. Enjoy and bon appetite!